At the very beginning of the prject, I initally thought that I could create the entire game by using HTML and CSS. I have planned a simple game with a dark theme, styled text, and a button to advance the story, believing that this would fulfill the requirements. However, as i carefully gained some assistance from the other people, they have realised that I have been coding my game on HTML and CSS, I read back at the assessment brief and realised that I had to code on p5.js. This was a turning point for me beacuse it meant that I had completely redo the same thing over again, but instead using a different type of code which I am less confident in doing. I still kept my idea in creating a dark themed gameplay. At first, it was overwhelming for me to code on p5.js considering that I barely have any experience in it. However, it has given me the motivation to learn new techniques and new coding concepts, whilst having other people helping me throughout the process of this gameplay.

Transitioning to p5.js was not easy, and it took me a significant amount of time and understanding how to code my idea effectively. I strugged with drawing shapes, and animating the player, creating collision detection, and managing different game states such as menus, intros, and game over screens. There were moments when nothing seemed to work the way I imagined, as i thought it would work out the same as coding in HTML and CSS. It was frustrating to troubleshoot errors in the code, However, I received guidance from my teacher, Tom Keene, who has helped me understand the logic behind p5.js functions and to organise my code into manageable sections. His support was essential in helping me understand timing functions, animation smoothing as he sent me a code through emails on how to do animation. With the patience, time and practice, repeating errors, I have used some references from the 'anthillsocial' repository which gave me a few examples on how I could code my gameplay.There were a variety of different sections whether if it was media, drawing, variables, multiples. It has given me the inspiration to replicate those codes into my gameplay. After all of the inspirations, my original idea was starting to take place and I started gaining confidence to an extent where I could finish my gameplay before the deadline. 

Before switching to p5.js, my initial concept was built entirely with HTML and CSS. The idea was simplistic considering about the static page featuring the title "LET'S PLAY" button , and a textbox that displayed introlines sequentially. The CSS helped create the mood of the aesthetic of the page, giving it a dark, eerie atmosphere, and the text would appear gradually to build suspense. While this approach was visually effective to some degree, it was very limited in terms of interaction. The player could only use one mouse click to start the story but that was when I realised i had to code in p5.js. Therefore, i have stopped coding on that file and left it there so that I could use it as evidence through my journey in this assessment. Disregarding the simplicity, this early version was a useful way in supporting me plan the narrative, story pacing, and the horror atmosphere. It was essentially a prototype for the story elements, but it could not illustrate the immersive, advanced gameplay that I imagined. 

After switching to p5.js, I was able to finally bring my game idea into progress. I have created a menu screen, an animated introduction, and a playable chatacter that can move around the screen using arrow keys. The p5.js dark aesthetics allowed me to manage game states, collisions and the animations in a way that HTML and CSS never could, regarding to my 1-2 years of experience. I added interactive elements like a pulsing character which reflects the games theme and suspence. Story timelines which provides more detail and context for the user when they try out the gameplay. Through this process, I not only transmitted my original text story into a fully interactive experience but also learned how to structure a early retro game by managing variables, and create smooth animation by adjusting the duration from the code. The final version is more responsive considering of all the trial and errors that have occured throughout the journey of p5.js. It also demonstrates how the project evolved over time from a simple concept into a complete playable horror game. However, due to the lack of time I have left, I did want to add some more features to this gameplay (such as walls that could be interactive, jumpscares when the player dies/restarts the game, perhaps background music to enhance the gaemplay's suspense.)

Looking back on the entire project, I can see how much this epxerience challenged me and helped me grow (a little bit) as a coder. At times, it was extremely frustrating debuggin codes, figuring out collisions, and managing animations often felt overwhelming, There were moments when I thought my Ideas might of been to ambitious or that I wouldn't be able to get the game to work as I wanted it to be. However, every small breakthrough, like successfully making the player move gives me a sense of accomplishment and motivation to keep going. Having guidance from Tom has helped me overcome some technical errors and encourages me to explore solutions I haven't even considered. By the end of the processm the satisfaction of transforming my simple text based HTML and CSS idea into a fullt interactive, immersive game. It has also given the knowledge on how to code in certain ways making it seem like I am travelling through a stepping stone each time I accomplish a code. 